David Bednar BYU Devotional 10 May 2005
[Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fqhK8fB9m-Q)

Sister Bednar and I are acquainted with a returned missionary who had dated a
special young woman for a period of time. This young man cared for the young
woman very much and he was desirous of making his relationship with her more
serious. He was considering and hoping for engagement and marriage. Now this
relationship was developing during the precise time that President Hinckley
counseled the relief society sisters and young women of the church to wear
only one earring in each ear. The young man waited patiently over a period of
time for the young woman to remove her extra earrings but she did not take
them out. This was a valuable piece of information for this young man and he
felt unsettled about her non-responsiveness to a prophet's pleading. For this
and other reasons he ultimately stopped dating the young woman because he was
looking for an eternal companion who had the courage to promptly and quietly
obey the counsel of the prophet in all things and at all times. The young man
was quick to observe that the young woman was not quick to observe. Now before
I continue I presume that some of you might have difficulty with my last
example. In fact this particular illustration of the young man being quick to
observe may even fan the flames of controversy on campus resulting in letters
of disagreement and even outrage to the daily universe. You may believe the
young man was too judgmental or that basing an eternally important decision
even in part upon such a supposedly minor issue is silly or fanatical perhaps
you were bothered because the example focuses upon a young woman who failed to
respond to prophetic counsel instead of a young man. I simply invite you to
consider and ponder the power of being quick to observe and what was actually
observed in the case i just described.

The issue was not earrings.

