---
title: "Example Letter from Grandma: 'so much you could accomplish for good'"
permalink: /example-letter-from-grandma-so-much-could-accomplish-for-good/
maintopic: faith-transitions
doctype: anecdotal
layout: page
---

[Letter From My Grandma](https://www.reddit.com/r/exmormon/comments/74cvlc/letter_from_my_grandma/)

---

September 23, 20117 [sic]

Dear [redacted],

If you didn't mean so much to me and I didn't love you, there is no way that I
would be writing this letter.  I have worried about you and your sweet family.
I know that deep down you know that you have a Heavenly Father.  I also know
that he loves you and wants you to enjoy all of the blessings that he has in
store for those that love him.  I feel that you have a hard time believing
that he loves you, but he does and wants you to be part of his eternal family.

You have proven that you are strong physically and I think you have the
capability of being just as strong spiritually.  You seem to have a great
influence upon many people and it would be wonderful if you could use that
influence for good.  I think that is why Satan is trying all of his tactics to
keep you from accomplishing those things that could help friends and loved
ones turn away from him.  If you would give as much time to read Heavenly
Father's word as Satan's word you would realize that there is no way that any
human could be intelligent enough to keep all the happenings of the Bible and
The Book of Mormon in proper sequence with all the different names, places,
and incidents.  This has been made possible because of the rememberance of our
pre-mortal life has been closed, and we needed to be reminded of his love and
his teachings to help us find our way back to him.

He doesn't want to lose you, also me and the rest of the family doesn't want
to lose you and your sweet family.  I shudder to know how your children are
going to face the problems that will arise in their lives.  Their teen age
years would be a great worry if they didn't know that they have a Heavenly
Father that loves them very much and would help them in their times of trouble
or sorrow.  It would be hard to live without hope.  You have such a precious
family, and I want you all to be together forever.

Repenting is not easy, but it is worth it.  My father had to go through this
process and it was a difficult trial for him in the beginning.  He had to let
go of his pride and admit that he had not kept his covenants.  However after
he made that decision a load was lifted off him and he enjoyed more peace and
happiness.

I also know that Heavenly Father has blessed you with so many talents and
abilities.  You have so much you could accomplish for good.  If you question
that Heavenly Father really loves you, I would admonish you to get down on
your knees and ask him that question and then see what feelings he bestows
upon you.

My prayers are always with you and your family and my most fervent prayer is
that you will have the strength to do what is best for you and your family.

Lots of Love,

Grandma [redacted]

---

### Top 2 upvoted comments (that are serious)

From `/u/Ua_Tsaug`:

> I get letters that are very similar to this too. I really hate the "deep down, I know you know it's true" rhetoric.

From `/u/THE__V`:

> There is only one way to answer this.

> Blow sunshine up her ass.

> Channel your inner Pollyanna and let it fly in a disgustingly sweet and happy response.

> Ignore everything she says and send back a letter of how happy you and your kids are. How wonderful they are doing without needless guilt and shame. How close you are growing as a family since you've stopped being too busy for each other.

> Worked wonders with my grandparents for many years until they gave up. How do you argue with Pollyanna?
